{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20640\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Athena - Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL. Athena is serverless, so there is no infrastructure to manage, and you pay only for the queries that you run. Athena is easy to use. Simply point to your data in Amazon S3, define the schema, and start querying using standard SQL. Most results are delivered within seconds. With Athena, there\'92s no need for complex ETL jobs to prepare your data for analysis. This makes it easy for anyone with SQL skills to quickly analyze large-scale datasets.\
\
AWS - Amazon Web Services - Amazon Web Services, Inc. is a subsidiary of Amazon that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered pay-as-you-go basis. These cloud computing web services provide distributed computing processing capacity and software tools via AWS server farms.\
\
AWS SDK - The AWS SDK (software development kit) for Java simpli\uc0\u64257 es use of AWS Services by providing a set of libraries that are consistent and familiar for Java developers. It provides support for API lifecycle consideration such as credential management, retries, data marshaling, and serialization.\
\
AWS CLI for analytics - The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) is a unified tool to manage your AWS services. With just one tool to download and configure, you can control multiple AWS services from the command line and automate them through scripts. The AWS CLI v2 offers several new features including improved installers, new configuration options such as AWS IAM Identity Center (successor to AWS SSO), and various interactive features. \
\
bucket - A bucket is a container for objects. To store your data in Amazon S3, you first create a bucket and specify a bucket name and AWS Region. Then, you upload your data to that bucket as objects in Amazon S3. Each object has a key (or key name), which is the unique identifier for the object within the bucket.\
\
bulk data - Bulk data means an electronic collection of data composed of information from multiple records, whose primary relationship to each other is their shared origin from single or multiple databases.\
\
Cassandra - Cassandra is a free and open-source, distributed, wide-column store, NoSQL database management system designed to handle large amounts of data across many commodity servers, providing high availability with no single point of failure.\
\
Cloudsearch query - Amazor Cloudsearch is deprecated. Switch to Lucene, ElasticSearch, etc.\
\
Dynamo DB - Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed proprietary NoSQL database service that supports key\'96value and document data structures and is offered by Amazon.com as part of the Amazon Web Services portfolio. DynamoDB exposes a similar data model to and derives its name from Dynamo, but has a different underlying implementation, since 2012. \
\
EC2 - Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a part of Amazon.com's cloud-computing platform, Amazon Web Services, that allows users to rent virtual computers on which to run their own computer applications.\
\
Elasticsearch query - Elasticsearch is a distributed search and analytics engine built on Apache Lucene. Since its release in 2010, Elasticsearch has quickly become the most popular search engine and is commonly used for log analytics, full-text search, security intelligence, business analytics, and operational intelligence use cases. On January 21, 2021, Elastic NV announced that they would change their software licensing strategy and not release new versions of Elasticsearch and Kibana under the permissive Apache License, Version 2.0 (ALv2) license. Instead, new versions of the software will be offered under the Elastic license, with source code available under the Elastic License or SSPL.\
\
EMR (Elastic Map Reduce) query -  Amazon EMR is used for data analysis in log analysis, web indexing, data warehousing, machine learning (ML), financial analysis, scientific simulation and bioinformatics. Open SQL Explorer in your Workspace. Make sure your Workspace is attached to an EMR cluster running on EC2 with Presto and Spark installed. Select Open editor to open a new editor tab in your Workspace. Compose your SQL query in the editor tab. Choose Run.\
\
Glue for ETL -  set up Glue, use Glue, optimize Glue. Houry rates billed by second. \
\
Glue crawlers - A crawler is a job defined in Amazon Glue. It crawls databases and buckets in S3 and then creates tables in Amazon Glue together with their schema. Then, you can perform your data operations in Glue, like ETL.\
\
GZIP files - Gzip is one of the most popular compression algorithms that allow you to reduce the size of a file. Gzip also refers to the .gz file format.\
\
Hive DDL data - Hive DDL commands are the statements used for defining and changing the structure of a table or database in Hive. It is used to build or modify the tables and other objects in the database. The several types of Hive DDL commands are: CREATE.\
\
Kinesis - You can use Amazon Kinesis to securely stream video from camera-equipped devices in homes, offices, factories, and public places to AWS. You can then use these video streams for video playback, security monitoring, face detection, machine learning, and other analytics. Kinesis Data Streams is a proprietary product developed by AWS and is not based on open-source Apache Kafka.\
\
Kinesis query - Performance-wise, Kafka has a clear advantage over Kinesis. Let's not forget that Kafka consistently gets better throughput than Kinesis. Kafka can reach a throughput of 30k messages per second, whereas the throughput of Kinesis is much lower, but still solidly in the thousands. \
\
manifest file - The manifest file is a text file in JSON format that Amazon Redshift uses to connect to the host. The manifest file specifies the SSH host endpoints and the commands that are run on the hosts to return data to Amazon Redshift.\
\
Marketplace - AWS Marketplace is a curated digital catalog that makes it easy to find, test, buy, and deploy the third-party software you want.\
\
Mongo DB - MongoDB is a source-available cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with optional schemas. MongoDB is developed by MongoDB Inc. and licensed under the Server Side Public License which is deemed non-free by several distributions.\
\
RDS - Amazon Relational Database Service is a distributed relational database service by Amazon Web Services. It is a web service running "in the cloud" designed to simplify the setup, operation, and scaling of a relational database for use in applications. Use Amazon Redshift Spectrum to query and retrieve data from files in Amazon S3 without having to load the data into Amazon Redshift tables. \
\
Redshift - Amazon Redshift is a data warehouse product which forms part of the larger cloud-computing platform Amazon Web Services. It is built on top of technology from the massive parallel processing data warehouse company ParAccel, to handle large scale data sets and database migrations. \
\
Redshift spectrum - To use Redshift Spectrum, you need an Amazon Redshift cluster and a SQL client that's connected to your cluster so that you can run SQL commands. \
\
S3 - Simple Storage Service - Amazon S3 or Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service offered by Amazon Web Services that provides object storage through a web service interface. Amazon S3 uses the same scalable storage infrastructure that Amazon.com uses to run its e-commerce network.\
\
Snowball - AWS Snowball is a service you can use to transfer large amounts of data between Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and your onsite data storage.\
\
Star scheme - Many organizations implement star and snowflake schema data warehouse designs and many BI tools are optimized to work with dimensions, facts, and measure groups. Customers have moved data warehouses of all types to Amazon Redshift with great success. At AWS used since 2015. \
\
Quicksight - Amazon QuickSight is a cloud-native, serverless, business intelligence with native ML integrations and usage-based pricing, allowing insights for all users.\
\
Vacuuming table - Amazon Redshift can automatically sort and perform a VACUUM DELETE operation on tables in the background. To clean up tables after a load or a series of incremental updates, you can also run the VACUUM command, either against the entire database or against individual tables.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/optimizing-for-star-schemas-and-interleaved-sorting-on-amazon-redshift/ \
https://aws.amazon.com/quicksight/ \
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/t_Reclaiming_storage_space202.html \
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/s3-large-transfer-between-buckets/n \
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/amazon-web-services-data-analytics/query-rds-with-ansi-sql?autoplay=true&resume=false\
https://aws.amazon.com/cli/}